---
layout: docs
title: Maintainers
prev_section: contributing
permalink: /docs/maintainers/
---

From the [Collective Code Construction Contract][1]:

> A "Maintainer" is a person who merges patches to the
> project. Maintainers are not developers; their job is to enforce
> process.

## Maintainer Workflow

The Maintainer workflow is defined by [C4][1].  The following process
description is intended to help Maintainers, but the C4 page the
authoritative source.

### Prerequisites

- Maintainers MUST have a GitHub account and SHOULD use their real
  name or a well-known alias.

### Patch Requirements

The Maintainer's job is to ensure contributed patches conform to [C4
"Patch Requirements"][1]:

- A patch SHOULD be a minimal and accurate answer to exactly one
  identified and agreed problem.

- A patch MUST adhere to the code style guidelines of the project if
  these are defined.

- A patch MUST adhere to the guidelines defined in [C4 "Evolution of
  Public Contracts"][1]

- A patch SHALL NOT include non-trivial code from other projects
  unless the Contributor is the original author of that code.

- A patch MUST compile cleanly on at least the most important target
  platforms.

### Workflow

A pull request message is automatically generated by GitHub and sent
out to the mailing list whenever a contributor submits a pull
request.  Current pull requests are visible on
[the Machinekit GitHub Pull Requests page][2].

To review and merge a pull request, a Maintainer must perform the
following steps:

- Review the patch to make sure it conforms to the Patch Requirements,
  above.

- Ensure that the code builds successfully.  A third-party has
  contributed a [Buildbot][3] to simplify this step: a successful
  build on the Buildbot is sufficient.  See the [Buildbot
  documentation][7] for more details.

- If the patch is not 'correct', the Maintainer will request changes
  to the pull request using the GitHub pull request discussion
  feature. Comments will be limited to adherence to the above patch
  requirements; per the C4 contract, Maintainers will not make value
  judgments on correct patches.

- If the patch is 'correct', the Maintainer will [merge the pull
  request][5] using the "Merge Pull Request" button on the GitHub pull
  request web page.

  - The commit message entered when the pull request is merged MUST
    include a reference to the issue in [GFM notation][6]
    (e.g. '#188'), which creates a link from the issue to the commit,
    and MAY use [GitHub features to automatically close the issue][4]
    by including text like 'fixes #188'.

[1]:  /docs/C4/
[2]:  https://github.com/machinekit/machinekit/pulls/
[3]:  http://buildbot.dovetail-automata.com/grid
[4]:  https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-via-commit-messages
[5]:  https://help.github.com/articles/merging-a-pull-request
[6]:  https://help.github.com/articles/writing-on-github#references
[7]:  /docs/buildbot/